# bigram-based-word-generator
> A probabilistic word generation tool, just based on the probability of the next character's occurrence.

## Summary
This project focuses on analyzing the statistical frequency of letters following each other in input files to generate similar words. To achieve this, a bigram approach is employed, 
where pairs of consecutive letters and their frequency are stored and used to generate new words. 
By calculating the probabilities of letters following specific preceding letters, the project generates words that bear resemblance to the original input. 
For more information on bigrams, refer to the [Wikipedia Page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bigram).

## Installation 
To run the tool you will need:
- ``` python-3.8``` (at least I've used this version for developing)
- All libraries in ```requirements.txt``` (you can install the content by running ``` pip install -r requirements.txt ```)


## Usage
This program can be used by calling the following command
```  
python ./bigram_generator/main.py [<number_of_words_to_generate>] [<paths>]
 ```
- ``` number_of_words_to_generate ```: Specify how many words should be generated by the program, the default value is 10.
- ``` paths ```: Specify which you would like to use, as a default, all files inside a data directory will be used.

## Example
When inputted the entire Lord of the Rings Trilogy and the book Alice in Wonderland, the program generated the following words:

```
w is a word: True
share is a word: True
ngasst is a word: False
Crs is a word: False
s is a word: True
were is a word: True
wallay is a word: False
hand is a word: True
mpesid is a word: False
oondlbre is a word: False
Number of real words: 5 
Number of generated words: 10 
Accuracy: 0.5
```
The accuracy (the number of generated words, which are actually words of the English language, divided by the number of generated words) of this model is ~0.48 (tested multiple times with 1000 words), 
but this depends heavily on the input data. That's not too bad, considering we that it is just counting characters and choose new ones randomly based on the statistical frequency. 


## Future
But I'm going to try to make it better by using deep learning and adding more respected characters. The new versions repo will be linked here.
